---
navigation:
  title: From Gamma Space
---
# Gamma Space Support Menu

If you are part of the Baby Ghosts program, you'll receive the following support from our partner Gamma Space:

## Week 1
- Onboarding (1.5hr)
	- Meet the mentoring team
	- Asynchronous introduction to Slack and overview of the Gamma Space Slack
	- Setup of your custom #proj and #studio channels

## Week 2
- Attend meetup and give presentation (1.5hr)
	- Programmed 15-minute prepared presentation at Monday night check-in, followed by 15-20 minute Q+A
- Meetup debrief/pain points meeting (1hr)
	- Debrief/check-in and flesh out Project and Studio pain points
- Ad hoc: Basic engagement with your #proj and #studio channels

## Weeks 3-16
- Miro orientation (1hr)
	- Learn about the collaborative online whiteboard tool we use
- Production and studio development meetings (as needed, 1-1.5hr)
	- Draw on the options offered by Gamma Space (see below)
- Asynchronous #proj and #studio Slack channel check-ins
- Asynchronous #proj and #studio Slack channel updates, journaling, and storytelling (strongly encouraged)

_For SEAL investees, this process is similar, but goes beyond 16 weeks_

::alert{type="info"}
**NOTE:** If you’re more comfortable with asynchronous check-ins through Slack, we can do that instead of video calls. We can also keep meetings to certain lengths or meet with our cameras turned off. Don’t hesitate to let us know what works best for you!
::

## Available Resources

Beyond your weekly or bi-weekly meetings with Gamma Space mentors, there are other resources available to you during the mentorship:

- Storytelling and documentation meetings
- Tech support asks from the broader community
  - Audits of current tech stack and/or needs
  - Support identifying/implementing tools, plugins, etc.
- Topic specific mentorship as needed
  - Studio structure & roles (cooperative vs. conventional, founder vs. collaborator)
  - Preparing to pitch/present at industry & community events
  - Navigating work-life balance and sustainable professional practice
  - Collaborative and personal task management
  - Overview of productivity, project management tools for small teams
  - Scoping assistance (using a waterfall chart to evaluate resource usage, time, and goals)
  - Studio and project budgeting
  - Other – we’re flexible! Ask and we’ll do our best to provide resources
- Connecting with legal and accounting professionals as needed
  - Omer Riza, Full Cycle Accounting
  - Alex Chun, Spark Law
- Monday night check-ins
  - A chance to share, get feedback, workshop a project, or just be in community
  - 7:00-8:30PM ET on Google Meet (video always optional)
  - Link is posted every Monday in the [#announcements](https://gammaspace.slack.com/archives/C50A08BB2) channel
- Working meeting (where we work on a budget, pitch, etc. together)

### Software Resources

Program participants and Gamma Space members have access to the following tools at _no cost_:

- **Slack** for team communication within the Gamma Space Slack account. We'll add all your team members and set up your official studio and project channels when you onboard. Feel free to make channels as needed.
- **Miro** for you and your team to create boards, templates, and other shared visual collaborative resources.
- Access GSuite (members only)
- **Asana** project creation with unlimited guests (requires facilitator setup)
- Discounts on purchasing software and licences through our not-for-profit pricing


### Kaitlyn’s Gamma Space Slack Map

Welcome to our Slack! Here's your Gamma Space Slack Catalogue.

Most conversations, links and insights to share happen in #random and #game-talk is a place for sharing interesting games!

Feel free to check the list of channels! We have the [#coworking](https://gammaspace.slack.com/archives/C03JT2Z7MK7) channel where we join each other for music and occasional chatter as we work on our respective projects. Co-op members also post their Value Flow accounting daily.

#houseplants for sharing plant pictures, #movies-tv-talk for talking about what media we're watching, #snacks for sharing food, #photos for sharing photos or vids! #wip for sharing screenshots or thoughts of works in progress, #news often features pertinent news, #wellbeing is a place to talk about our holistic wellbeing (physical, mental, spiritual) and share resources. And also #productivity is a great channel where we talk about the tools we use to help us work effectively! ([Obsidian](https://obsidian.md) is a well loved app here!)

Also! Channels ending in `-dev` or `-makes` or start with `proj-` are public dev channels! (you can use the + button beside Channels on the sidebar and search through it, feel free to join whatever you like!)