# Code of Conduct

All **community participants** – including investees, staff, sponsors, presenters and partners – must abide by this code of conduct.

By becoming a grantee or investee of Weird Ghosts, attending or hosting any event here, or joining our Slack team, you agree to abide by this code of conduct and cooperate with those who enforce it.

## Expected Behavior

We insist that everyone who uses this community space remains mindful of and takes responsibility for their speech and behaviour. This includes:

- Always acting out of respect and concern for the well-being and free expression of others
- Actively listening to others and not dominating discussions
- Respecting physical and emotional boundaries
- Not making assumptions about identity, experiences, or pronouns
- Not using words that are racist, sexist, homophobic, classist, transphobic or ableist
- Humbly accepting respectful correction (or correcting yourself), keeping in mind that the impact of your words on other people is more important than your intent

## Unacceptable Behavior

We believe that failing to address the dynamics of hierarchy, power and privilege alienates and further victimizes community members and prevents us from creating the safe, equitable and welcoming space we want.

**We do not tolerate oppressive behaviour, harassment, destructive behaviour, or exclusionary actions.**

**Oppressive behaviour**: any conduct that demeans, marginalizes, rejects, threatens or harms anyone based on identity, background, or ability.

**Harassment**: deliberate intimidation; stalking; following; harassing photography or recording; disruption of events; aggressive, derogatory, or threatening comments; and unwanted physical contact or sexual attention.

**Destructive behaviour**: damaging or altering any part of the building, inside or out, including furniture, equipment, or other people's belongings.

**Exclusionary actions**: denying specific participants opportunities to share views, skills and other contributions; engaging in favouritism; and creating or reinforcing an inequitable learning environment.

## Enforcement

Anyone asked to stop unacceptable behaviour must comply immediately.

Anyone who engages in sustained unacceptable behaviour may be sanctioned or permanently expelled from the community without warning.

### What to do if you need help

If you witness or are subject to unacceptable behaviour or experience marginalizing or silencing behaviour that limits your full participation, please speak with the event host, Weird Ghosts staff or volunteer. You can also report an incident to [coc@weirdghosts.ca][1].

We will hold your conversation in confidence.

When you come to us with a problem, it is our top priority to help you feel safe as quickly as possible. Next, our directors will meet to decide our response following our written conflict resolution and equity policies. Then, we will warn or remove the offender depending on the circumstances, considering your and the community's safety and wishes. Suppose the problem does not impact your human rights or safety. In that case, we may ask the involved parties to leave the community and schedule a time to engage in negotiation and mediation later.

[1]: mailto:coc@weirdghosts.ca

## Receiving reports

## Initial incident report

Collect a written account, or transcribe a verbal report. Gather this information from the reporter – do not "interview" witnesses unless they approach staff.

1. Name of the participant doing the harassing
2. The behaviour that was in violation
3. The date and time of the behaviour
4. The circumstances surrounding the incident
5. Other people involved in the incident
6. Conversation with the victim

In any case, when a complainant reports a problem to an organizer, follow these steps to ensure they feel safe:

1. Provide the victim with a private space
2. Allow the victim to decide if further action should be taken: "This sounds like a breach of our Code of Conduct. If you're OK with it, I am going to meet with my other director to figure out what our response will be." Pause, and see if they say they do not want this. Otherwise, go ahead.
3. Let them know that the directors will handle the matter according to our policies and walk them through the next steps. Let them know that the directors will inform them about any actions taken.
4. Make sure they know their identity will not be disclosed to anyone – including the offender – except the directors.

### Response

| Issue                                                                                                                                                                                              | Response                                                                                       |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| An interpersonal problem or dispute that is not a violation of the Code of Conduct (i.e., the offender has not engaged in any of the things listed under Unacceptable Behavior) | Refer the reporter to the Conflict Resolution Policy and offer the support of the directors |
| A first Code of Conduct violation has been observed or reported – but it is not severely disruptive                                                                                                | Warn the offender                                                                              |
| An offender is engaged in sustained or repeat violations of the Code of Conduct and has been warned, or the offence is severe (e.g., assaulting, groping, taking up-skirt photos)                 | Immediately remove the offender from the venue; permanently ban                                |
| Anyone's physical safety is threatened                                                                                                                                                             | Immediately remove the offender from the platform and contact law enforcement; permanently ban    |

We will indefinitely sanction offenders if they:

- Commit a second offence that would result in a warning from the staff
- Continue to harass after any "No" or "Stop" instruction
- Exhibit a pattern of harassing behaviour, with or without warnings
- Preventing retaliation
- The privacy and safety of the victim is paramount. Be careful about the details you share about the incident and with whom.

DO NOT share details of the people involved or the incident without specific permission from the victim.

Directors should meet as soon as possible after a report – ideally within one week – to discuss the following:

What happened?
What are we doing about it?
Who is doing those things?
When are they doing them?

Neither the complainant nor the alleged harasser should attend, even if they are staff or a director.

Before or during the above meeting, let the alleged harasser know there is a complaint about them. Allow them to tell a committee member their side of the story, and if they do, have that person take it into the meeting.

### After the meeting

Once we decide what action we will take, contact the harasser. Convey the consequences without discussing details or rationale, and say: "If you'd like to discuss this further, please contact [x], but in the meantime, you must [x]."

DO NOT ask the victim for advice on how to deal with the complaint. DO NOT offer the victim input into penalties.

Once action has been taken, follow up with the victim and let them know what has been done and that you are here to support them.

### Incident log

When an issue is reported, whether it is referred to the conflict resolution policy or considered a Code of Conduct violation, the directors should keep the original incident report up to date, covering:

If the offender has been warned, how did they respond? Were they contrite? Did they immediately stop the behaviour?

Document every communication from staff or committee members related to the incident, especially to third parties.

Document the date of the directors' meeting(s) and any decisions and follow-up communications related to the incident.

The directors should follow up with the complainant, record the full details of how the incident was resolved, and prepare a report for the board.

### About Apologies

Do not ask the offender to apologize to the victim. Weird Ghosts has no responsibility to enforce friendship, reconciliation, or anything beyond stopping harassment between members or event attendees.

Forcing a victim of harassment to acknowledge an apology from their harasser forces further contact with their harasser. It also creates a social expectation that they will accept the apology, forgive their harasser, and return their social connection to its previous status.

If the harasser offers to apologize to the victim, strongly discourage it. If a staff member relays an apology to the victim, it should be brief and not require a response.

If the harasser attempts to press an apology on someone who would prefer to avoid them, or attempts to recruit others to relay messages on their behalf, this constitutes continued harassment and is grounds for permanent expulsion.

### Data Retention

All initial incident reports and logs should be retained permanently, regardless of the action taken against the harasser.

Reports should be stored in a Google Drive document, and access should be shared only with current directors. The president should control access, removing and adding privileges as staff and members turn over.

Providing access and information about the records should be part of the board member, staff, and committee onboarding process.
