---
navigation:
  title: Harassment and Discrimination Policy
---
# Harassment and Discrimination Policy

## Our commitment

Weird Ghosts is committed to fostering an environment free of discrimination and harassment, where all individuals are treated with respect and dignity, can contribute fully, and have equal opportunities. Under the [Canadian Human Rights Act](https://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/h-6/), we are obligated to take appropriate action against any individual who harasses or discriminates against someone else. This policy applies to all staff, volunteers, investees, partners, mentors, and community members associated with Weird Ghosts.

## Policy objectives

The objectives of this policy are to:

- Ensure that everyone associated with Weird Ghosts is aware that harassment and discrimination are unacceptable practices and are incompatible with the standards of our organization, as well as being a violation of the law.
- Set out the types of behaviour that may be considered offensive and are prohibited by this policy.

## Applying the policy

This policy applies to all behaviour that is in some way connected to our work, including during training programs, mentorship, business trips, and organization gatherings. It also applies to all aspects of the professional relationship, including recruitment, selection, promotion, training, salaries, benefits, and termination.

## Protected grounds

This policy prohibits discrimination or harassment based on the following grounds, and any combination of these grounds:

- Age
- Creed (religion)
- Sex
- Pregnancy and breastfeeding
- Sexual orientation
- Gender identity
- Gender expression
- Family status
- Marital status
- Disability
- Race
- Ancestry
- Place of origin
- Ethnic origin
- Citizenship
- Colour
- Record of offences (criminal conviction for a provincial offence, or for an offence for which a pardon has been received)
- Association or relationship with a person identified by one of the above grounds
- Perception that one of the above grounds applies.

## Key concepts

**Discrimination** means any form of unequal treatment based on a Code ground, whether imposing extra burdens or denying benefits. It may be intentional or unintentional. It may involve direct actions that are discriminatory on their face, or it may involve rules, practices or procedures that appear neutral, but disadvantage certain groups of people.

**Harassment** means a course of comments or actions that are known, or ought reasonably to be known, to be unwelcome. It can involve words or actions that are known or should be known to be offensive, embarrassing, humiliating, demeaning or unwelcome, based on a ground of discrimination identified by this policy.

## Roles and responsibilities

All persons associated with Weird Ghosts are expected to uphold and abide by this policy, by refraining from any form of harassment or discrimination, and by cooperating fully in any investigation of a harassment or discrimination complaint.

Managers and supervisors have the additional responsibility to act immediately on observations or allegations of harassment or discrimination. Managers and supervisors are responsible for creating and maintaining a harassment- and discrimination-free organization, and should address potential problems before they become serious.

## Procedures for addressing a harassment complaint

We have set procedures for handling harassment complaints. These procedures ensure that everyone associated with Weird Ghosts is aware of the steps that will be taken if an individual makes a harassment complaint.

### Filing a complaint

An individual may file a harassment complaint by contacting the designated person in the organization. The complaint may be verbal or in writing. If the complaint is made verbally, the designated person will record the details provided by the individual. The individual should be prepared to provide details such as what happened; when it happened; where it happened; how often and who else was present (if applicable). Complaints should be made as soon as possible but no later than within one year of the last incident of perceived harassment, unless there are circumstances that prevented the individual from doing so.

### Mediation

Wherever appropriate and possible, the parties to the harassment complaint will be offered mediation prior to proceeding with a harassment investigation. Mediation is voluntary and confidential. It is intended to assist the parties to arrive at a mutually acceptable resolution to the harassment complaint. The mediator will be a neutral person, agreed upon by both parties. The mediator will not be involved in investigating the complaint. Each party to the complaint has the right to be accompanied and assisted during mediation sessions by a person of their choosing.

### Investigation

If mediation is inappropriate or does not resolve the issue, a harassment investigation will be conducted. All investigations will be handled by an individual who has the necessary training and experience. In some cases, an external consultant may be engaged for this purpose. The investigator will interview the person who made the complaint, the person the complaint was made against and any witnesses that have been identified. All people who are interviewed will have the right to review their statement, as recorded by the investigator, to ensure its accuracy.

### Substantiated complaint

If a harassment complaint is substantiated, the designated person will decide what action is appropriate. Remedies for the individual who was harassed may include: an oral or written apology; compensation for lost wages; compensation for any lost employment benefits such as sick leave; and compensation for hurt feelings. Corrective action for the individual found to have engaged in harassment may include: a reprimand; a suspension; a demotion; and/or dismissal. Both parties to the complaint will be advised, in writing, of the decision.

## Loving Justice

In deciding the appropriate action, we apply the principles of being Brave, Honest, Kind, and Humble from the [Loving Justice framework](https://abolitionist.tools/Loving-Justice) by Kai Cheng Thom. We ask:

- Is it Brave? Has personal responsibility for the action been taken? Does the action take a stand against systemic oppression and harmful power dynamics? Does the action face up to the actor’s personal fears, insecurities, and mistakes?
- Is it Honest? Has the whole story been told? Have conflicts of interest and power dynamics been declared and adequately neutralized? Have commitments and responsibilities to self and others been carried out appropriately?
- Is it Kind? Does the action demonstrate attention to the needs and safety of self and other? Does the action invite and support positive change, rather than further harm or punishment? Has there been respect for the inherent dignity and rights of all involved?
- Is it Humble? Has there been sufficient self-reflection prior to, during, and after the action? Is there openness to the possibility of personal error? Is there willingness to be corrected when mistakes are made? Is the feeling of the action one that demonstrates humility? Is there openness to clearly discussing and justifying the action if asked?

### Other redress

An individual who is not satisfied with the outcome of the harassment complaint process may file a discrimination complaint with the [Canadian Human Rights Commission](https://www.chrc-ccdp.gc.ca/eng).

### Privacy and confidentiality

All parties to a harassment complaint are expected to respect the privacy and confidentiality of all other parties involved and to limit the discussion of a harassment complaint to those that need to know. Weird Ghosts and all individuals involved in the harassment complaint process will comply with all requirements of the Canadian privacy legislation to protect personal information.

## Review

Weird Ghosts will review this policy and procedures on an annual basis, or as required, and will make necessary adjustments to ensure that it meets the needs of all employees.

## Questions

Concerns or questions about this policy and related procedures can be made to [hello@weirdghosts.ca](mailto:hello@weirdghosts.ca).
