---
navigation:
  title: TikTok Meeting Notes
---
# TikTok Marketing Meeting: July 3, 2023

## Questions and answers:

- **Is it valuable to edit things inside or outside of TikTok?**
  - Can edit in InShot or Premiere or CapCut whatever you’re most comfy with.
  - But use the TikTok tools. Use the captions, the sounds, the effects in TikTok (for the SEO)
  - Repost other people’s stuff.
  
- **Whether gameplay or talking heads works better?**
  - Really depends on how it's done
  - Usually better to be really short & really contained unless it really has some meat to it (like a personal story that will connect with people)

- **Projections for how viable TikTok is?**
  - No idea what will happen, but making stuff that is cross-platform can help
  - Focus on making vertical video not just TikToks because vertical video are gonna be here for a while

- **I wanna learn about sounds or use original audio or use trending sounds**
  - You do want to jump on the trending sounds if you can but sometimes it's good to use your original audio if it's hitting a niche

## Eileen’s Presentation

[Check out here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1l03RI4uCwAX7eRv9dwJ36i7RuLpYSMO83vqBhkJXzrQ/edit?usp=sharing)

## Daffodil:
- Views numbers are generally below 1000
- Quick 5 second one was the first to get over 1000 views
- One with trending audio & loop really popped off on Instagram
- One got flagged as dangerous and another got flagged as performed by professionals
- Better to get on a trend earlier in the spike rather than later: [Link](https://ads.tiktok.com/business/creativecenter/inspiration/popular/hashtag/pc/en) 

## Dunc:
- Been doing vertical social media for people since 2016
- Recommends using all the social media with the same content. Repurpose!
- He has even re-uploaded directly from TikTok to YouTube with TikTok watermark and it’s been successful
- Best practice is to upload it clean (without watermarks)
- RNG you're dealing with where you can upload the same video and it will do differently
- You get another shot on net if you post the same thing to a different platform 
- Try to fill up the vertical space as much as you can
- All platforms are optimizing to vertical
- There are really good ways with games especially to spread your assets out without superzooming on your trailer.
- Have assets in top and bottom wooshing by while regular trailer played in the middle (to make the horizontal video work in a vertical way)
- Can do a blur on the top and bottom in Premiere
- But be careful that the important parts aren't cut off by the captions at the bottom!

### SEO:
- Venba a good example as well as Sally
- Hidden text: 
  - Hide the SEO text in the image so no one really sees (!!)
  - Great if the captions don't really match the aesthetic
  - You can overdo it. Too many hashtags, end up being shadowbanned for spamming.
- Do a series:
  - Many posts about characters
  - Plan in a series to make it easier to plan what you're doing next
  - Could be beneficial to make separate accounts
  - Studio account / game account
  - So you have more chances

### Funnel of content:
- 10 seconds of story (too many Instagram stories are bad)
- 1 minute reel
- longer YouTube video
- We can boost one another / comment on each other’s videos and ask questions.
