---
navigation:
  title: Actionable Steam Metrics
---

**Notes from Alden Kroll's Steam metrics workshop** 

I wanted to share some takeaways from Alden Kroll's recent workshop at GamePlay Space on actionable Steam metrics. The session had a lot of interesting and helpful advice on how to use Steam's various reporting tools to make informed decisions at each stage of development. I hope my notes are helpful!

### Understanding Steam data sites

Alden highlighted three main Steam portals that offer data on game performance:

1. **Sales and Activations Reports Portal:** This becomes your go-to once you have a store page for your game. It can help you track performance indicators like sales, players, and wishlists.
2. **Steamworks:** A handy tool for monitoring game traffic, visibility, and builds usage.
3. **Steam charts:** This feature gives a global perspective with charts, stats, and reports.

### Pre-release data gathering

Pre-release is all about understanding the potential audience and the market landscape. Here are some things Alden recommended we pay attention to:

- **Hardware survey:** Steam's platform-wide data can guide technical requirements, like screen resolution, languages, and hardware compatibility.
- **Tag pages:** Use these for market research, identifying trends in successful games, their features, price points, and presentation styles.
- **Wishlists:** Wishlists are key to gauging awareness and building an audience to engage upon release and during discounts. They can also provide platform-specific stats and indicate long-term growth trends.
- **Regional wishlists:** Localization insights can be drawn from regional wishlist data. To access this, head to sales and activations reports, select your game, and click on *Regional sales report*.
- **UTM tracking:** This tool helps measure the impact of external marketing efforts, including streamer and press outreach. Chris Zukowski's guide on [how to use Steam’s UTM feature](https://howtomarketagame.com/2021/04/14/how-to-use-steams-utm-feature-to-track-the-number-of-wishlists-and-sales-your-marketing-is-generating/) was recommended for detailed insights.
- **Steam playtest:** The playtest feature can give you specific data about your potential audience, including hardware usage and regional player breakdown.
- **Data articles:** Alden encourages folks to keep an eye on Valve's occasional articles. These often provide valuable data on things like controller usage trends, wishlisting trends, and key findings from events like NextFest.

### Post-release metrics and analysis

Once the game is out, Alden highlighted several crucial metrics that we should be tracking:

- **Game sales data reports:** Comparing time periods, countries, and promotional events can give you valuable insights about your game's performance.
- **Game player numbers:** Metrics like concurrent players and daily active users help show the game's traction.
- **Median playtime:** Tracking the average playtime can show you how long players are engaging with the game, and if there's a drop-off point you need to address.
- **Remote play stats:** These stats indicate how many people are playing your game on other devices or via the *remote play together* feature for shared screens.
- **Controller usage:** It's important to understand the input devices players are using, especially those who use a controller. The Steam Input API can help ensyure complete support for all devices.
- **Game hardware survey:** A monthly survey sampling from players can reveal their hardware specs. This data is useful to ensure the game is compatible with the most common hardware.
- **Steam key activations:** This feature shows where batches of keys are ending up and how many are being redeemed. *Remember, once generated, you can't update tags on a batch.*
- **Refund data:** Understanding the reasons for refunds can help identify and address potential blockers for players.
- **User reviews:** Although not a metric per se, reviews offer a treasure trove of qualitative data about your game's performance and reception.
- **Events & announcements:** Each post comes with visibility and voting data that can provide insights on where and how players are interacting with your content.
- **Promos and discounts:** Analyzing how players respond to different price points can help optimize your discount strategy.
- **Traffic and visibility:** Understanding where your game appears on Steam and how players find it can help optimize visibility.
- **Beta branch users:** Tracking how many players opt into each branch of your game build can provide useful feedback on the stability of builds.
- **In-game purchases:** If you're selling in-game items that can be traded or gifted,  *anticipate potential fraud*. The Steam API has functions like `GetUserInfo()` and `GetReport()` that can help monitor this.
- **Monthly revenue report:** This report gives a detailed breakdown of sales, refunds, taxes, and net payout, helping you keep track of financials.

### Multi-game Release

Once you have more than one game, Alden pointed out that you can start comparing them to each other using the top menu of the sales portal, allowing you to see various reports and easily compare all your games in aggregate. 

Key areas to consider in multi-game release scenarios are:

- **Bundles sales data:** Comparing the performance of your game in both standalone and bundled formats can provide insights about your game's appeal.
- **Regional Sales Stats:** By comparing how your games perform in different regions, you can identify key geographic areas for marketing and localization.

Alden recommended referring to the [Steam API documentation](https://partner.steamgames.com/doc/api) for a detailed understanding of the various features and how to use them.

