---
navigation:
  title: Conflict Resolution
---

# Conflict Resolution

## Purpose

Weird Ghosts recognizes that conflicts occur in organizations for various reasons. If conflicts are identified and recognized promptly, and treated appropriately, the knowledge gained can enrich and improve our community. 

We also recognize that an unaddressed conflict, whether because it is avoided or improperly handled, can escalate, causing people harm and hurting all of us.

Prevention and early intervention efforts are vital to fostering collaboration and maintaining a healthy and respectful creative environment. 

The purpose of this policy is to provide an effective, consistently applied, and transparent method to address conflicts and disputes. Such issues may arise with Weird Ghosts' programs, its governance, or the conduct of its directors.


| Type | Policy |
| --- | --- |
| Conflict of interest complaint | [Conflict of Interest Policy](/handbook/policies/conflict-of-interest) |
| Formal complaints of harassment or discrimination | [Harassment and Discrimination Policy](/handbook/policies/harassment-and-discrimination) |
| Inter-organizational disputes | Terms of agreement for the shared project |

Staff and community members must comply with the Weird Ghosts Conflict Resolution Policy and related by-laws and policies as a condition of investment or participation. Failure to cooperate with the Weird Ghosts Conflict Resolution Policy may result in termination.

## Guiding Principles

### In-House Conflict Resolution

The skills and resources of Weird Ghosts will be developed and used to resolve conflicts in a manner that is trauma-informed, interest-based, understanding-based, facilitative, collaborative and fully participative whenever possible. Seeking external advice and expertise is recommended in cases of formal complaints.

### Personal Responsibility and Engagement

All parties to a complaint will actively participate and strive to achieve a collaborative resolution and outcome at the earliest possible stage of the process.

### Confidentiality

Information about a complaint will only be given to parties directly involved and others on a need-to-know basis.

### Transparency

The parties will be provided with clear and understandable reasons for complaint decisions. All parties will be provided with updates during the review process.

### Timeliness

Complaints will be dealt with promptly and resolved as quickly as possible.

### Fairness

Review of complaints will be fair, impartial and respectful, allowing all parties to have their perspectives heard.

### Thoroughness

The review of complaints will be thorough and as detailed as possible based on the information provided by the parties.

### Accessible and User-Friendly

The process will be easily accessible and communicated to members. It is designed to be clear and as simple to follow as possible.

### Training and Professional Development

The organization will ensure conflict resolution is central to staff professional development and set aside time and resources.

### Responsibility for Implementation

This process is the responsibility of Weird Ghosts. Investees have the right to request a mediator if required.

## Conflict Resolution Procedures

### Informal Complaints & Dispute Resolution

- When disagreements arise, both parties should attempt to converse about their concerns, using the Weird Ghosts Code of Conduct as a guide.
- Choose a private and agreeable time and place to meet online.
- Give each other enough time to express their thoughts and feelings.
- The goal is to reach a mutual understanding, so listen to each other's perspectives.
- Learn from the conversation to avoid miscommunication in the future.
- If needed, seek assistance from Weird Ghosts for informal resolution.
  - Efforts will be made to resolve the matter informally within two weeks.
  - Both parties will be invited to participate in informal meetings, negotiations, or facilitated discussions.
- If informal resolution is successful, the matter will be considered resolved.

### Formal Complaints and Resolution

For complaints regarding harassment and discrimination, please refer to our [Harassment and Discrimination Policy](/handbook/policies/harassment-and-discrimination). This policy provides a detailed process for handling such complaints, including filing a complaint, mediation, investigation, and resolution.

For other types of conflicts:

- A formal written complaint can be submitted if an informal resolution is not achieved or the complainant is unsatisfied.
- The written complaint should include the complainant's name, detailed information about the issue, prior resolution efforts, and desired outcomes.
- The Responsible Contact Person will acknowledge receipt of the complaint.
- The Responsible Contact Person will review the complaint, assess policy violations, and provide relevant information to the complainant.
- The complainant's complaint may be shared with the respondent if an informal resolution is unsuccessful.
- The respondent will be allowed to respond within two weeks.
- If both parties accept, an Informal Dispute Resolution process will be facilitated within one week.
- Any resolution reached through Informal Dispute Resolution will be documented in writing and kept confidential.
- If Informal Dispute Resolution is declined or unsuccessful, the Responsible Contact Person will consider advice from external sources and decide on the next course of action, including discussions and policy changes.
