---
navigation:
  title: From Gamma Space
---
# Gamma Space Support Menu

## Available Resources

Beyond your weekly or bi-weekly meetings with Gamma Space mentors, there are other resources available to you as a member of the Weird Ghosts community. Book a meeting, or just ping @weird-ghosts and/or @hyades in the Gamma Space Slack to get started.


::my-button
---
link:
  to: https://calendly.com/baby-ghosts-cohort3/individual-studio-session
color: primary
---
Book a Meeting
::

### Storytelling and Documentation
  - We can help you learn to journal, document your process and progress, tell your story, and create a plan for sharing your story (through your plans, pitches, and presentations)

### Tech Support
  - We can help you find the right person to help you with your tech needs
  - Audits of current tech stack and/or needs
  - Support identifying/implementing tools, plugins, etc.

### Topic-Specific Mentorship

- Defining and refining studio structure and roles
- Preparing to pitch/present to publishers, funders, or at industry and community events
- Navigating work-life balance and sustainable professional practice
- Collaborative and personal task management
- Overview of productivity, project management tools for small teams
- Scoping assistance (e.g., using a waterfall chart to evaluate resource usage, time, and goals)
- Assessing Miro boards and other collaborative tools to help extract action items and long-term goals
- Studio and project budgeting
- Reviewing grant and other funding applications
- Reviewing contracts
- Facilitating internal meetings
- Working meeting (where we work on a budget, pitch, etc. together)
- Other – we’re flexible! Ask and we’ll do our best to provide resources and support

### Legal and Accounting
- Omer Riza, Full Cycle Accounting
- [Alex Chun, Dickinson Wright](https://www.dickinson-wright.com/our-people/alexandria-chun?tab=0)

### Community
- Monday night check-ins
  - Join the huddle every Monday night (except holidays) in the [#monday-night](https://app.slack.com/huddle/T024FLYSV/C02N4TWFC56) channel
  - A chance to share, get feedback, workshop an idea, or just be in community
- Cohort sessions
  - Stay 30 min after presentations to chat and share with fellow cohort members

### Software Resources

Program participants and Gamma Space members have access to the following tools at _no cost_:

- **Slack** for team communication within the Gamma Space Slack account. We'll add all your team members and set up your official studio and project channels when you onboard. Feel free to make channels as needed.
- **Miro** for you and your team to create boards, templates, and other shared visual collaborative resources.
- Access GSuite (members only)
- **Asana** project creation with unlimited guests (requires facilitator setup)
- Discounts on purchasing software and licences through our not-for-profit pricing


## Baby Ghosts 

If you are part of the Baby Ghosts program, you'll receive the following support from our partner Gamma Space:

### Stage 1:

**Months 1-2 - goal alignment, studio structure, and community engagement**
* Onboarding - 1 hour
* Asynchronous introduction to Slack and overview of the Gamma Space Slack
* 15-minute presentation at Monday night check-in - 1.5 hours
* Review of check-in and pain points - 1 hour
* Basic engagement with your #proj and #studio channels 

### Stage 2:

**Months 3-6 - pitching, planning, and prototyping**

* Production and studio development meetings - 1 hr weekly or 1.5 hours biweekly
* Dedicated weekly Slack channel check-ins and updates by the team
* Asynchronous #proj and #studio Slack channel check-ins
* Asynchronous #proj and #studio Slack channel updates,  journaling, and storytelling (strongly encouraged)

### Optional supports:

* Monday night community check-ins - 1.5 hrs weekly
* Topic-specific mentorship as needed - 30m-1hr weekly
* Storytelling, process and progress reporting - 2 hrs monthly
* Connect with legal and accounting professionals as needed

## Expectations

During the Baby Ghosts program, studios agree to participate in the following:
* Studio development work (e.g., creating documents that articulate values, mandate, structure, roles, team, capacity plan)
* Regular/timely check-ins with Gamma Space and Weird Ghosts peer mentors in the Gamma Space Slack.
* Impact measurement work (e.g., results flow, impact measurement framework)

_For SEAL investees, this process is similar, but goes beyond 6 months._


::alert{type="info"}
**NOTE:** We can keep meetings to certain lengths or meet with our cameras turned off. Don’t hesitate to let us know what works best for you!
::

### Kaitlyn’s Gamma Space Slack Map

Welcome to our Slack! Here's your Gamma Space Slack Catalogue.

Most conversations, links and insights to share happen in #random and #game-talk is a place for sharing interesting games!

Feel free to check the list of channels! We have the [#coworking](https://gammaspace.slack.com/archives/C03JT2Z7MK7) channel where we join each other for music and occasional chatter as we work on our respective projects. Co-op members also post their Value Flow accounting daily.

#houseplants for sharing plant pictures, #movies-tv-talk for talking about what media we're watching, #snacks for sharing food, #photos for sharing photos or vids! #wip for sharing screenshots or thoughts of works in progress, #news often features pertinent news, #wellbeing is a place to talk about our holistic wellbeing (physical, mental, spiritual) and share resources. And also #productivity is a great channel where we talk about the tools we use to help us work effectively! ([Obsidian](https://obsidian.md) is a well loved app here!)

Also! Channels ending in `-dev` or `-makes` or start with `proj-` are public dev channels! (you can use the + button beside Channels on the sidebar and search through it, feel free to join whatever you like!)